Story Recapped here. Today
I'm going to explain a crime,
drama, and thriller film called “Sleep Tight."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
At the edge of an apartment building,
a concierge named Cesar contemplates how he is
unable to find any source of happiness no matter
how much he tries to search for it. Despite having
good things happen to him, he remains restless
and dissatisfied with the life he’s living.
At exactly 5 A.M, he wakes up beside Clara,
a tenant of the building, and goes about his daily
routine of working at the building. At the lobby,
Cesar secretly hands money to Ursula, a tenant’s
daughter, which seems like a usual thing between
the two. By the entrance, Clara and Cesar also
stumble upon Veronica, another tenant who is
fond of her dogs. After greeting the elderly lady,
Clara reminds Cesar that her sink is clogged and
needs immediate repair, to which he replies that
he will drop by to fix it. Throughout the day,
Cesar continues working before
visiting his mother at the hospital.
Because of her condition, she is unable to speak
and is completely immobile, but she listens to him
talk about Clara whenever he pays a visit.
Back at the building, the supervisor scolds
Cesar for being late for two consecutive days.
He tries to defend himself, but the supervisor
gets more irritated. Their conversation is cut
short when Veronica appears, asking Cesar a
favor. She needs someone to look after her
dogs while she attends a birthday party, giving
detailed instructions on how to feed her pets.
Cesar agrees and proceeds to Veronica’s apartment
after entrusting the office keys to the cleaning
lady and her son. He feeds the dogs their food,
but contrary to the old lady’s instructions,
he adds a slice of pie to the one named Rocio.
Meanwhile, Clara arrives at her place where she
opens several letters which she then throws away.
She continues the night by dancing around all
while Cesar hides under her bed unnoticed.
He patiently waits for her to fall asleep and
uses a mirror to make sure that she is completely
unconscious. He then uses chloroform on Clara,
making sure she goes into a deep sleep. He
uncovers her sheets to look at her underwear
before heading to the bathroom to mess with
her toiletries. He adds an unknown substance to
her care products using a syringe before laying
with Clara in bed.
Again, at 5 A.M, Cesar wakes up to go about his
routine, even using Clara’s personal supplies.
When he leaves, Ursula stands outside telling
him she will not let anyone know about Cesar’s
doings if he provides her with an explicit adult
movie. Without a choice, he makes a deal with the
little girl to conceal his dirty deeds. That day,
Veronica walks into the lobby with only one dog,
so Cesar asks what happened to Rocio, and she
explains that the dog currently has diarrhea.
As part of his work, he inserts mail into the
tenants’ mailboxes and even adds several letters
in Clara’s box, revealing that he has been the one
sending the mysterious letters. In Clara’s room,
Clara continuously uses the care products
without knowing that Cesar has gone through them.
When she arrives at the lobby, she asks Cesar if
he has seen a watch that seems to be missing in
her apartment, but he denies that he has. However,
he lets her know that she will be informed if he
ever sees it.
Later that day, while Cesar writes more
letters, Ursula sneaks out of school to
ask for the adult movie which he hands to her.
She also tells him that she has grown closer to
Clara in the past few days and that the price
for her being quiet will now be at 100 euros.
Cesar is impressed but annoyed with the kid’s
extortion abilities. He then shoos her away. At
the lobby, the supervisor scolds him once more for
not tending to the plants that led them to die.
He becomes successful at angering another tenant
because of this, not to mention the growing
frustration of his supervisor toward him. Cesar
tells it to his mother who he visits again that
day. He also adds that he is almost successful
in his aim to wipe Clara’s smile off her face
because he wishes to make his tenants frustrated—a
goal he has been working on for quite some time.
That night, Cesar informs the cleaning lady
that the main office was not cleaned which leads
the cleaner’s son to trouble, despite Cesar’s
claims not being true. After, he heads to Clara’s
apartment to fix the sink clog he had orchestrated
and ruins her watch. Hiding once again under
Clara’s bed, he patiently waits for her to fall
asleep while she talks to her boyfriend on the
phone. Once done, he uses chloroform to maintain
her deep sleep as he continues to sabotage
more of her items in an attempt to upset her.
This time, he plants bug eggs in different
areas of her apartment. Days pass and Clara
develops a rash. This negatively affects her,
and her mood and demeanor noticeably change.
For weeks, she has no idea that Cesar is behind
her suffering, and that he shares the same bed
with him every night. The letters addressed
to her are written as if she has a stalker,
but little does she know, it is from the
very man to who she entrusts her apartment
to.
The following week, Clara’s rashes have subsided,
putting her in a state of relief—but not for long.
As she opens her medicine cabinet, she sees bugs
all over it. She rushes to the lobby to ask for
help from none other than Cesar. Clearly, he
is highly entertained by the situation and
gets satisfaction out of people’s struggles.
Because of the infestation in her apartment,
Clara decides to stay at her mother’s
place until Cesar fumigates her apartment.
Clara and Cesar enter the elevator together,
and Cesar asks about the guy harassing her.
Clara gets weirded out because she hasn’t
talked to anyone about it, but Cesar insists
that she might have shared it with Veronica, and
Veronica might have told him. She also adds that
the police have tracked down the signal of her
harasser, and reveals that the culprit lives in
the same building. Clara subtly says that the
police are getting closer to catching the guy.
Deeply concerned about how far he has gone, Cesar
expresses his worries to his mother who has no
choice but to listen to how her son copes with his
mental struggles. He also tells his mother that
he will do all it takes to make Clara miserable,
so he starts to come up with ways to devastate
her as he cleans the apartment. The supervisor
interrupts him and claims that Cesar is a waste of
space as he does not last long in his past jobs.
He rudely tells Cesar to start looking for a
new source of income as he is on the brink of
unemployment once more.
That same day, three police officers enter the
building, asking Cesar if they could have a word
with him. The officers gather the staff around
a room to investigate Clara's complaints of
being harassed. Despite this, Cesar remains
composed and unbothered by the situation,
even when asked who has access to the
office. He leads the police officers to
the cleaner’s son’s locker where they find
yellow envelopes similar to the harasser’s.
Cesar has successfully framed the poor boy
and results in the boy getting arrested.
From a payphone booth,
Cesar calls Clara to inform her that the apartment
has been fumigated and is in its prime condition.
Clara gladly tells him that she is excited to get
back home. To prepare for her arrival, Cesar heads
back to his quarters to prepare several tools
he needs to sabotage Clara’s place even more.
He disturbingly holds a knife beside her empty
bed, as if practicing how to stab someone.
He then crawls under the bed. Not long after, he
sees that Clara invited her boyfriend Marcos over
to spend the night together. All this time, Cesar
is under the bed while the couple gets intimate
with each other, causing the bed to bounce. Cesar
accidentally drops some chloroform on his face.
Desperately battling the effects of the
substance, Cesar makes his way out of the
bedroom while the two are making love.
As he attempts to leave the apartment,
he realizes that he has the wrong set
of keys, leaving him locked inside.
The following day, he wakes up in Clara’s
bathroom, while Clara prepares her bath.
Cesar tries to be as quiet as possible, but Marcos
finds Cesar’s sports bag with numerous suspicious
items. They unpack the bag full of tools and
find Cesar’s diary where he logs the tenants’
activities and routines. As they start to read
it, Clara becomes dizzy, so Marcos tends to her,
completely disregarding the suspicious bag.
This also gives Cesar the opportunity to exit
the bathroom and hide in the kitchen, but Marcos
comes into the kitchen to find something to eat.
While they make a grocery list, Cesar hides,
hoping that the couple wouldn’t come any closer.
The couple playfully hangs out in the
living room on the way to the bathroom,
so Cesar waits for the perfect time to pass
unnoticed and retrieve the keys to get out.
He successfully enters the bedroom and secures
the key and his diary, but on his way out,
Marcos gets a glimpse of him and follows him to
the door. When Marcos catches him, Cesar asks who
he is, causing a commotion in the apartment until
Clara enters the scene to calm the two men down.
She explains that Marcos is her boyfriend and
that Cesar should not worry about anything.
When asked why he is in the apartment, Cesar
informs them that he left his fumigation gear
in there, where Veronica’s keys are. He also adds
that Veronica needs her keys. Thinking nothing is
out of the ordinary, the couple lets Cesar go,
and Cesar successfully deceives the couple.
After the eventful morning,
he heads downstairs only to find that he is going
to be dismissed from the job. The two supervisors
inform him that he has two weeks to gather
his things before permanently being laid off.
While doing so, Veronica consoles him and
offers some stew to cheer him up. However,
the distressed Cesar insults the kind lady by
saying that she will forever be alone and that
the tenants in the apartment only talk to her
out of pity. Veronica then walks away crying and
bumps into Clara and Marcos who are on the way
to the lobby. When Clara greets the old lady,
she just gives a faint smile as she goes up
to her apartment. Learning that the couple
is having a trip out of town, Cesar dwells
on it and gets in an extremely sad mood.
After weeks, he returns to the rooftop and
contemplates again on his inability to find
any happiness in the world. Feeling hopeless,
he gets on the edge to take his own life, but he
spots Clara and Marcos back at the building. The
two have a big fight after finding out that Clara
is four weeks pregnant. Because they have not seen
each other for six weeks, Marcos finds it strange
for her to be pregnant as they also use protection
whenever they get intimate. Clara defends herself
by saying that according to the doctor, it
is possible, but Marcos remains unconvinced,
causing a bump in the relationship. Far from
their knowledge, Cesar has caught up on all
the information while he hides under the bed. When
the couple falls asleep, he uses chloroform to put
them out again and tells the unconscious Clara
that their affair is starting to bear fruit. He
then removes his shirt before climbing in bed and
in between the couple to get intimate with Clara.
The following day, Marcos knocks at Cesar’s
quarters asking him to check Clara’s apartment
as he thinks that there is a bug problem again.
Inside, Marcos finds out Cesar has been drugging
Clara with chloroform. Filled with rage,
Marcos attacks Cesar, trying to extract more
information, but Cesar maintains a cool manner.
After Cesar says that Clara does not mind it,
Marcos becomes more agitated and holds Cesar’s
head against a closet, but still, Cesar does not
fight back. When Marcos tackles him to the bed,
Cesar uses a piece of broken glass to stab Marcos
in the neck and drags the poor man around the
apartment. He lets him bleed to death inside the
bathtub, and leaves a piece of glass in his hand
to make it look like Marcos took his own life.
Afterward, he fixes the apartment while completely
disregarding the overflowing tub and Marcos.
Eventually, the authorities are contacted about
the situation, and all people inside the building
gather around. Cesar is summoned by the officers
and on the way, he sees Ursula give a smirk,
indicating that she has knowledge of what
happened. In Clara’s apartment, a disastrous scene
welcomes him inside as she cries uncontrollably
while an officer consoles. One of them questions
Cesar about Marcos but gets dismissed right
away. On his way back to his quarters, he sees
a note saying “I saw you.” Knowing that Ursula
is aware that he was involved in Marcos’ death,
Cesar sneaks into Ursula’s mother’s apartment
and chases the poor girl around. She runs to
her parents’ room only to find out that Cesar had
drugged them. He grabs Ursula and threatens her
and her loved ones if she rats him out.
Clara’s moving day finally comes; as she goes down
to the lobby, she could not even utter one word
as she remains in disbelief about Marcos’ death.
As she leaves, Cesar seems to indulge in the joy
of seeing her sad, happily smiling at the sight of
her tearful face. Months have passed and Clara has
delivered a healthy baby boy. Out of nowhere, she
sees a familiar envelope and finds out that the
letter is from Cesar who reveals that he is the
father of her child. He also writes he is hoping
that every time she looks at their baby, she will
think of him, and finally thanks her for helping
him find happiness. Clara embraces her baby in
tears as Cesar takes pride in what he has done.